## 1.1 Setup

First, make sure `mkapp` is installed locally and `mkapp-cli` is installed globally so you can use the command line interface.

	npm install mkapp-cli -g
	npm install mkapp --save

Grab a cup of coffee, the local installation will take a few minutes. When it completes, start out by confirming you have the cli tools.

	which mkapp

This should be `path/to/your/global/node/installation/bin/mkapp`. Once confirmed, lets create a new project.

	mkapp new

The global `mkapp-cli` will look for a local copy of `mkapp` using Node's `resolve()` algorithm. Once it finds the local installation, you
will be prompted to define some configuration keys. They are as follows:

- **Source Directory:** where your project files live. The boilerplate project files will get copied here. Keep it at the root level. `default=./src`
- **Development Directory:** where source files are compiled/transpiled into browser-ready code. This is where your app will live as you develop, and where the livereload server will serve files from when you run `mkapp dev`. `default=./dev`
- **Distribution Directory:** where the concatenated and minified files for your distribution app will be saved when you run `mkapp dist` `default=./dist`
- **Host for Condux Server:** url for the websocket server that keeps your client/admin/and server apps connected in real time. `default=localhost`
- **Host for API Server:** url where the API server can be reached. `default=localhost`
- **Port:** Port for the condux server and files. `default=3030`
- **Admin App** should mkapp boilerplate an admin dashboard as well as a client app? `default=true`
- **Minify CSS** should mkapp compress the CSS when you create a distribution bundle? `default=true`

Next `mkapp` will scaffold and install a boilerplate project in the *source* directory you specified in the configuration step. This will be the basis for our project.
Assuming you've cloned the project already, checkout a new branch pointing to our progress so far with `git checkout -b 1_setup 1_setup`.
