# mkapp Example Project

### Overview

In this tutorial we're building a simple mkapp project that uses a color picker and some input fields to change the look and feel of our application dynamically. The tutorial is broken into two sections. The first covers the mkapp build system, in the second we'll build the actual app. By the end of the tutorial, you should have a fairly good understanding of mkapp components, themes, the Condux websocket API, and building your own components into mkapp. Clone the code from the [demo project repo](https://github.com/epferrari/mkapp-demo.git) and follow along by checking out tags as we progress.

Part 1: Mkapp Basics

- [Setup](./1.1-setup.md#content)
- [Boilerplate](./1.2-boilerplate.md#content)
- [Condux](./1.3-condux-intro.md#content)
- [App State](./1.4-app-state.md#content)
- [Mkapp Components](./1.5-components.md#content)
- [Building on Mkapp Components](./1.6-compositing.md#content)
- [Hybrid Components](./1.7-hybrid-components.md#content)
- [Mkapp Theme](./1.8-mkapp-theme.md#content)
- [Configuration](./1.9-mkapp-config/md#content)

Part 2: Building the App

- [Adding the Color Picker](./2.1-color-picker.md#content)
- [Setting Colors 1](./2.2-setting-colors-1.md#content)
- [Setting Colors 2](./2.3-setting-colors-2.md#content)
- [Setting Colors 3](./2.4-setting-colors-3.md#content)
- [Setting Colors 4](./2.5-setting-colors-4.md#content)
- [Advanced Theming 1](./2.6-advanced-theming-1.md#content)
- [Advanced Theming 2](./2.7-advanced-theming-2.md#content)

#

<a name="content"></a>
## 1.1 Setup

First, make sure `mkapp` is installed locally and `mkapp-cli` is installed globally so you can use the command line interface.

	npm install mkapp-cli -g
	npm install mkapp --save

Grab a cup of coffee, the local installation will take a few minutes. When it completes, start out by confirming you have the cli tools.

	which mkapp

This should be `path/to/your/global/node/installation/bin/mkapp`. Once confirmed, lets create a new project.

	mkapp new

The global `mkapp-cli` will look for a local copy of `mkapp` using Node's `resolve()` algorithm. Once it finds the local installation, you
will be prompted to define some configuration keys. They are as follows:

- **Source Directory:** where your project files live. The boilerplate project files will get copied here. Keep it at the root level. `default=./src`
- **Development Directory:** where source files are compiled/transpiled into browser-ready code. This is where your app will live as you develop, and where the livereload server will serve files from when you run `mkapp dev`. `default=./dev`
- **Distribution Directory:** where the concatenated and minified files for your distribution app will be saved when you run `mkapp dist` `default=./dist`
- **Host for Condux Server:** url for the websocket server that keeps your client/admin/and server apps connected in real time. `default=localhost`
- **Host for API Server:** url where the API server can be reached. `default=localhost`
- **Port:** Port for the condux server and files. `default=3030`
- **Admin App** should mkapp boilerplate an admin dashboard as well as a client app? `default=true`
- **Minify CSS** should mkapp compress the CSS when you create a distribution bundle? `default=true`

Next `mkapp` will scaffold and install a boilerplate project in the *source* directory you specified in the configuration step. This will be the basis for our project.
Assuming you've cloned the project already, checkout a new branch pointing to our progress so far with `git checkout -b 1_setup 1_setup`.


# 

[Top](#top)<a href="./1.2-boilerplate.md#content" style="display:inline-block; padding:0 5px; text-align:right; float:right;" >Next -></a>

